---
source: generated
model: claude-opus-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: May Day, May Day
type: blog post
area: Design, UX & product
matched_human_doc: texts/jeffrey-zeldman/2006-05-01--may-day-may-day.txt
words: 351
generated: 2026-08-31
---

# May Day, May Day

There are two ways to read that title, and product teams live in the gap between them.

The first is the celebration. Workers in the street, the eight-hour day, the radical idea that the people doing the labour should have some say in how it's organised. The second is the distress call — *m'aidez*, help me — sent from a cockpit when the instruments stop agreeing with the world outside the window.

Most design organisations I've watched are transmitting the second while quietly needing the first.

Here's the distress call. The roadmap says one thing, the research says another, and nobody has the standing to reconcile them. A designer spends three weeks on a flow that gets cut in a planning session they weren't invited to. The design system has 400 components and no owner. Everyone is busy; nothing is being decided. That's not a resourcing problem. It's an authority problem wearing a resourcing problem's clothes.

And here's where the first meaning earns its keep. May Day wasn't about working less. It was about who gets to set the terms of the work. The eight-hour day was a boundary that made craft possible — you cannot do careful thinking at hour fourteen, and the people who knew that had to organise to make it true.

The equivalent boundary in our discipline is not headcount. It's the right to say *not yet*. Not yet, because we haven't spoken to a user. Not yet, because this pattern contradicts three others. Not yet, because the metric we're optimising is a proxy for something we haven't defined. Every team that has produced work you admire had someone with the standing to say that and survive it.

You get that standing the same way it's always been got: not by asking, and not individually. By building the evidence, holding the line together, and making the cost of overriding you legible to the people doing the overriding.

The distress call is the easy part. Anyone can transmit it, and most of us do, daily, into Slack.

The other May Day requires organising.
