---
source: generated
model: claude-opus-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: Here comes HaaS
type: blog post
area: Technology & media
matched_human_doc: texts/nicholas-carr/2006-03-01--here-comes-haas.txt
words: 388
generated: 2026-08-31
---

# Here comes HaaS

Every wave of automation gets its acronym eventually. Software became SaaS. Infrastructure became IaaS. Now, as agents take over more of the work that used to require a person at a keyboard, we are arriving at the inevitable inversion: Human-as-a-Service.

The phrase sounds like a joke until you look at where the money is already going. Reinforcement learning from human feedback is a labour market. Data labelling is a labour market. So is the growing business of "expert data" — hiring radiologists, litigators, and derivatives traders to write out how they think, so a model can absorb it. Scale AI, Surge, Mercor and their competitors have built billion-dollar businesses on a simple premise: models need human judgment, priced by the hour, delivered on demand, through an API.

What changes now is the direction of the request. In the old arrangement, humans called software. In the new one, software calls humans. An agent working through a task hits something it cannot resolve — an ambiguous clause, a regulatory sign-off, a claim that needs a real person's name against it — and dispatches that fragment to a human, waits for the response, and continues. The human is a function call. Latency measured in minutes rather than milliseconds, but architecturally, a dependency like any other.

For media and technology businesses, this is less exotic than it sounds. It is roughly what a fact-checking desk does, or a legal review queue, or a trust-and-safety escalation path. The difference is that these become services with defined interfaces, SLAs and per-call pricing rather than departments with headcount. That is a genuinely useful reframing for anyone trying to work out which parts of their organisation survive contact with capable agents. The parts that survive are the ones where a human's judgment, accountability, or licence is the actual product.

There is an uncomfortable version of this too. Interfaces are commoditising: they hide the person, standardise the output, and make substitution easy. Piecework has a history, and it is not a happy one. The firms that get HaaS right will be the ones treating the human on the other end of the call as a scarce expert rather than a fungible unit of throughput.

Either way, it is coming. Better to design the interface deliberately than to discover you have already become one.
