---
source: generated
model: claude-sonnet-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: Now, let’s bury the myth
type: blog post
area: Technology & media
matched_human_doc: texts/nicholas-carr/2006-05-01--now-let-s-bury-the-myth.txt
words: 1027
generated: 2026-08-31
---

Now, let's bury the myth

For thirty years, an unkillable line has haunted every strategy deck in publishing, broadcast, and software: "content is king." Bill Gates wrote it in 1996 as a bet on where the internet's money would flow. It became scripture. Newsrooms built around it. Platforms pitched creators on it. Startups raised rounds promising to be "content companies" as if that phrase meant something specific. Three decades later, in a media environment drowning in more content than any civilization has ever produced, it is time to say plainly what a lot of people in this industry already know and won't say out loud: content was never king. It's time to bury the myth for good.

Start with the easiest evidence: abundance. If content were actually the scarce, valuable resource the myth insists it is, we would not be in a moment where a single mid-tier model can generate a competent article, a passable song, a serviceable ad campaign, in seconds, at near-zero marginal cost. Scarcity is what makes a thing valuable. Content stopped being scarce sometime around the mid-2010s, and the process accelerated violently once generative tools went mainstream. And yet — this is the part the myth can't explain — the winners in media and tech over the last five years have not been the entities producing the most content. They've been the ones people trust to filter it, contextualize it, or vouch for it. That's not a content story. That's a judgment story.

Consider what actually correlates with durable value in this industry right now. It isn't volume of output. Local newsrooms that produce a fraction of the content of a content farm retain subscriber loyalty that no farm can buy. Newsletter writers with five-figure subscriber lists routinely out-earn outlets producing a hundred times the material, because their audience isn't paying for words — they're paying for a specific, trusted point of view attached to a specific person. On the platform side, the companies now worth defending against AI disruption aren't the ones that hoarded the most articles or images to train on. They're the ones that own the relationship: the login, the inbox, the habit, the community that would follow the person even if the platform disappeared tomorrow. None of that is "content." All of it is trust, relationship, and taste — three things that don't scale the way content does, which is exactly why they're valuable now.

The myth persists because it's convenient. "Content is king" gives executives a simple, quantifiable mandate: make more, publish more, ship more. It's legible in a spreadsheet in a way that "cultivate trust" is not. You can put a content calendar in a board deck. You cannot put "the audience believes we won't lie to them" in a board deck, even though the second thing is what actually determines whether the business survives the next platform shift. This is the real reason the myth needs burying, not just correcting: it has been actively misdirecting investment for years, sending budget toward production and away from the harder, slower work of building the kind of institutional credibility that AI-generated volume cannot fake — yet.

That "yet" matters, and it's worth being honest about it rather than waving it away. Trust and taste are not permanently AI-proof; they're just currently much harder to synthesize than fluent sentences. A model can already mimic a voice, a house style, a tone of authority. What it cannot yet manufacture is a track record — a documented history of having been right, of having disclosed the error when wrong, of having taken the version of a story that cost something to tell. That history is slow to build and, so far, still expensive to fake convincingly at scale. Every media and tech organization's actual strategic asset in 2026 is whatever portion of that track record it has managed to accumulate and can prove. Everything else — the CMS, the app, the distribution deal, the content itself — is infrastructure. Necessary, but not the crown.

This reframing changes what "good strategy" looks like in practical terms, and it's worth being specific rather than inspirational about it. It means a media company's most valuable asset on the balance sheet isn't its archive size, it's its correction log — the visible, searchable record of having been accountable when it mattered. It means a platform's defensibility isn't the size of its content graph, it's the strength of its identity layer: does it actually know, and can it prove, who made this and whether they've made things worth trusting before. It means the newsroom or studio decision to spend money on a beat reporter who breaks two stories a month, instead of a wire-rewrite operation producing forty posts a day, is not a nostalgic indulgence. It is, mechanically, the more defensible bet, because the forty posts are now free to produce and the two stories aren't.

It also means something uncomfortable for anyone whose job title still contains the word "content": the skill that matters is shifting away from production and toward the two things machines are worst at — original reporting or creation that requires being somewhere or knowing someone, and editorial judgment about what deserves attention in the first place. Curators, editors, and people willing to put their name on a claim are becoming the scarce resource that the volume of raw material used to be. That's not a demotion. It's the job finally being named correctly.

None of this is an argument against making things. It's an argument against organizing an entire industry around a metaphor that made sense for a decade when content actually was scarce and has made progressively less sense every year since. The myth survived this long because burying it means admitting that the easy lever — make more — was never the one that mattered, and that the real lever — be worth believing — was always harder, slower, and less quantifiable. That's a harder pitch to a board. It's also the only one that's still true.

Content was never king. Trust was, is, and will keep being the throne everyone was actually fighting over. Let's stop pretending otherwise.
