---
source: generated
model: claude-opus-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: Paul Buchheit: Flash, Silverlight, and JavaFX all look nice, but what I really want is better file upload
type: blog post
area: Software engineering
matched_human_doc: texts/paul-buchheit/2007-05-01--paul-buchheit-flash-silverlight-and-javafx-all-look-nic.txt
words: 548
generated: 2026-08-31
---

# Paul Buchheit: Flash, Silverlight, and JavaFX all look nice, but what I really want is better file upload

Every few years the platform vendors roll out another rich-client runtime, and every few years the same thing happens: a wave of demos, a wave of blog posts, and then a slow retreat back to the browser. Flash had the animation story. Silverlight had the .NET story. JavaFX had the write-once story. All three looked nice. None of them fixed the thing that actually made web applications feel worse than desktop ones.

Buchheit's point, made from the position of someone who had shipped Gmail against the constraints of the era, was that the bottleneck was never expressiveness. It was the mundane plumbing. `<input type="file">` gave you one file, no progress, no resumption, no directory selection, and a full page navigation on submit. If you wanted anything better, you embedded a plugin — not because the plugin was a better programming model, but because it was the only thing with a file API worth using. That's an absurd reason to take on a runtime dependency, a plugin installer, a separate security surface, and a rendering engine that doesn't share the DOM.

This is a general pattern worth naming. Platform vendors compete on the ceiling; users experience the floor. A richer drawing model doesn't help the person trying to attach forty photos to an email. Raising the ceiling is a better story to tell at a keynote, and it's the kind of work that produces impressive demos, so it attracts investment out of proportion to the value it delivers. Fixing upload is unglamorous, benefits every application equally rather than differentiating your platform, and generates no lock-in — which is precisely why it stayed broken while three separate companies shipped competing vector animation runtimes.

The eventual resolution vindicated the argument, and it's instructive that it didn't come from any of the three. XMLHttpRequest Level 2 gave uploads a progress event. The File API gave scripts a handle on file contents without a round trip. Drag-and-drop, `multiple`, `webkitdirectory`, chunked uploads over `fetch`, resumable protocols layered on top. Each piece was small. Together they eliminated the last honest reason to install Flash for a business application, and the plugins died — not because a better plugin arrived, but because the floor came up underneath them.

The lesson generalizes past 2008. Any time you find yourself pulling in a heavyweight dependency, ask which specific capability you're actually buying. Often it's one narrow thing, and the rest of the surface area is cost you're absorbing to get it. The mismatch between the size of the dependency and the size of the need is the signal. A framework adopted to solve a real, small problem is a framework you'll spend years paying for after the problem gets solved upstream.

The same asymmetry shows up in your own roadmaps. The demo-friendly feature gets the headcount; the thing that quietly makes every workflow worse — the slow build, the flaky upload, the login that logs you out — sits in the backlog because no one gets promoted for fixing it. Buchheit's version has aged well: the interesting question is rarely what the platform can be made to do, but what it still makes needlessly painful to do at all.
