---
source: generated
model: claude-opus-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: Problems with MakeAShorterLink
type: blog post
area: Software engineering
matched_human_doc: texts/aaron-swartz/2002-05-21--problems-with-makeashorterlink.txt
words: 358
generated: 2026-08-31
---

# Problems with MakeAShorterLink

The joke writes itself: `makeashorterlink.com` is twenty characters before you reach the first slash. TinyURL is nine. Bit.ly is six. A service whose entire value proposition is character economy spent a third of its budget on its own name, and that miscalculation is a useful lens on the whole category.

MakeAShorterLink launched around 2001, a year or so ahead of TinyURL, and it lost anyway. Not because the redirect logic was wrong — a 301 and a hash table is not hard engineering — but because the product was a domain name, and it picked a bad one. There's a lesson there about identifying which part of your system is actually the product. The code was commodity. The namespace was everything.

The deeper problem is architectural, and it outlived the service. A shortener inserts a mandatory third party into a link's resolution path. Every shortened URL is a dependency on a company continuing to exist, continuing to pay for a domain, and continuing to serve traffic it can't monetize. MakeAShorterLink shut down in 2009 and folded its redirects into TinyURL — a genuinely graceful exit, and one nobody should have counted on. Most shorteners just stop. When they do, every link they ever minted becomes a 404, and there's no way to recover the target because the mapping only ever lived on their disk. We built a load-bearing layer of the web's citation graph on unfunded side projects.

Then there's opacity. A shortened link tells the user nothing about where it goes, which is a phishing primitive dressed as a convenience. Preview features helped, but they're opt-in, and opt-in security controls are decorative. Add the analytics trade: shorteners see every click, which is precisely why the free ones stayed free.

The constraint that created these services — SMS at 160 characters, then Twitter at 140 — is largely gone. Platforms shorten inline now, or display a friendly title over an arbitrary href. The problem got solved by the presentation layer, which is where it belonged.

MakeAShorterLink's real failure wasn't the name. It was building a business on a temporary limitation and calling it infrastructure.
