---
source: generated
model: claude-sonnet-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: Repeat After Me: Spending Surveys Are Meaningless
type: blog post
area: Technology & media
matched_human_doc: texts/barry-ritholtz/2007-10-01--repeat-after-me-spending-surveys-are-meaningless.txt
words: 394
generated: 2026-08-31
---

Repeat After Me: Spending Surveys Are Meaningless

Another quarter, another headline built on a survey. "62% of consumers plan to cut streaming spend." "Holiday shopping intent drops for third straight year." "Gen Z abandoning cable at record pace." These numbers get cited in earnings calls, investor notes, and trend pieces as if they describe behavior. They don't. They describe what people say when a stranger asks them to predict their own future spending — one of the least reliable exercises in human cognition.

The problems are well documented and routinely ignored. Stated intent and revealed behavior diverge constantly; people say they'll cut back and then don't, or say nothing will change and then churn anyway. Survey samples skew toward people willing to answer surveys, which is not a neutral trait. Question wording moves results by double digits. And nobody asking "will you cancel your subscription next year" is accounting for the sign-up deal, price change, or content release that hasn't happened yet.

Media and tech coverage treats these numbers as leading indicators because they arrive before the earnings report does, which makes them useful for narrative-building and useless for forecasting. A survey saying "40% considering cancellation" gets read as "40% will cancel." It won't. Some meaningful chunk of that 40% is expressing mild dissatisfaction, not intent, and plenty of the other 60% will churn anyway for reasons the survey never asked about.

None of this is a knock on the firms running these surveys — the methodology disclosures are usually right there. The failure is downstream: outlets and analysts strip the caveats because "consumers plan to spend less" is a better headline than "a sample of self-selected respondents expressed lower stated intent, historically uncorrelated with actual spend."

What actually predicts spend: card-linked transaction data, churn cohorts, App Store revenue rankings, actual pricing and bundling moves. These are noisier to source and harder to turn into a headline by Tuesday, which is exactly why survey data keeps winning the news cycle despite being worse.

The fix isn't to ignore consumer sentiment — it's a real input, just not a spend forecast. Treat these releases as mood readings, not predictions, and ask what actual transaction data would need to show to confirm the story before repeating it as fact. If a survey stat can't survive that question, it's not a data point. It's a press release.
