---
source: generated
model: claude-opus-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: Adam Smith Was a Socialist
type: blog post
area: Technology & media
matched_human_doc: texts/barry-ritholtz/2008-10-01--adam-smith-was-a-socialist.txt
words: 359
generated: 2026-08-31
---

# Adam Smith Was a Socialist

Not literally. The word didn't exist yet. But if you handed a modern tech executive *The Wealth of Nations* with the author's name removed, they'd flag it for HR.

Smith thought employers colluded constantly. "Masters are always and everywhere in a sort of tacit, but constant and uniform combination, not to raise the wages of labour." He noticed we never hear about it, because such collusion is "the usual, and one may say, the natural state of things which nobody ever hears of." Workers who organise get called a conspiracy. Employers who organise get called an industry association.

He was suspicious of businessmen as a class: "People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public." Any proposal for new commercial law coming from merchants, he said, should be examined with "the most suspicious attention" — because it comes from people whose interest is "to deceive and even to oppress the public."

He supported progressive taxation. He wanted public education specifically because the division of labour makes workers "as stupid and ignorant as it is possible for a human creature to become" — he saw dehumanisation as a cost of the system he was describing, not a rounding error. He thought high wages were good for the economy and defended them explicitly against the merchants complaining about them.

None of this makes him a socialist. It makes him an eighteenth-century moral philosopher who wrote *The Theory of Moral Sentiments* first and thought markets needed to sit inside a moral order, not replace one. The invisible hand appears exactly once in *The Wealth of Nations*, and in context it's about why merchants prefer domestic investment. It is not a theory of everything.

The reason this matters for anyone building things: the founding text of market economics is far more interested in *who captures the gains* than the version we inherited. Smith's question wasn't whether markets work. It was whether the people who do well out of a market will then rewrite its rules.

He assumed they would try. He was right.
