---
source: generated
model: claude-opus-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: Yahoo to Microsoft: No, Thank You
type: blog post
area: Technology & media
matched_human_doc: texts/barry-ritholtz/2008-02-01--yahoo-to-microsoft-no-thank-you.txt
words: 352
generated: 2026-08-31
---

# Yahoo to Microsoft: No, Thank You

Yahoo's board has done the thing everyone said it wouldn't: it said no.

Microsoft's offer was $44.6 billion, a 62% premium over Yahoo's trading price the Friday before. Jerry Yang and the board have decided that number "substantially undervalues" the company. Which is another way of saying: we think we're worth more than the market thinks we're worth, and we'd like some time to prove it.

That's a bold position for a company whose stock was at $19 before Steve Ballmer went shopping.

But look at what Microsoft is actually buying, and the refusal starts to make more sense. This isn't a bid for Yahoo's search technology — Microsoft has search technology, and it's fine. It's a bid for scale. Combined, Microsoft and Yahoo would hold roughly 30% of US search queries against Google's 60%. That's not parity. That's the consolation prize for second place, purchased at a premium, and Yahoo knows it's the only asset Microsoft can't build.

The strategic question nobody in Redmond seems keen to answer: what happens when you merge two organizations that have both lost to Google, and assume the sum will beat Google? Portal culture and platform culture do not integrate. Yahoo is a media company that runs technology. Microsoft is a technology company that has never quite understood media. The engineering attrition alone — and it will be the good engineers, the ones with options — could hollow out the thing being acquired before the ink dries.

Yahoo's alternative is thinner than its board would like. Outsourcing search advertising to Google would work commercially and die in Washington on antitrust grounds. A News Corp deal is a rumor with a press cycle attached. Standalone means asking shareholders to be patient while Panama gains ground, and shareholders have not been patient with Yahoo for three years.

So this is probably not a no. It's a price. Microsoft will come back somewhere north of $35 a share, and the board will find that number more thoughtful.

The interesting part is that Yahoo was willing to say the word at all.
