---
source: generated
model: claude-opus-5
prompt_style: naive title + audience + length
title: Will Apple rule the iPad market? (part II)
type: blog post
area: Technology & media
matched_human_doc: texts/horace-dediu/2010-05-18--will-apple-rule-the-ipad-market-part-ii.txt
words: 354
generated: 2026-08-31
---

# Will Apple rule the iPad market? (part II)

In part one, I argued that Apple's tablet lead was less a fortress than a head start. A year on, the head start is still there — and it still isn't a fortress.

Start with the number that matters to anyone selling into this market: share of installed base, not share of quarterly shipments. Apple continues to take the majority of tablet revenue while shipping a minority of the world's tablets. That gap is the whole story. Android and Amazon devices dominate the low end, where hardware is a loss-leader for a content or commerce business. Apple sells a device that people pay for and then keep paying into. For media professionals, that distinction determines where subscription conversion actually happens, and it hasn't moved much.

What has moved is the definition of the category. The iPad is no longer competing mainly with other tablets. It's competing with large phones on one side and thin laptops on the other, and Apple has responded by pushing the iPad up-market — better silicon, keyboard attachments, a windowing model that inches toward the Mac. That's a defensible strategy and a risky one. Every step toward the laptop invites the comparison the iPad has historically won by refusing: is this a real computer? Every year Apple answers "yes, more or less," and every year "more or less" costs it a little of the simplicity that made the thing sell.

The genuine threat isn't a rival tablet. It's that the tablet stops being a distinct product people replace on a cycle. Upgrade intervals have stretched to something closer to television than phone. A category where the hardware lasts five years is a category where the money migrates to services and content — which is precisely where Apple has been aiming, and precisely where it faces competitors that don't care about hardware margins at all.

So: rule, yes, in the sense that matters to Apple's balance sheet. Rule in the sense of controlling where tablet attention and tablet spending go? That contest was never really about the device, and it isn't settled.
